Up until this point we have our application fully
functional we can manage our questions and manage
answers for any questions.
And the important part in question/answer application
is we can vote on any questions and answers.
I'm sure you've found many things to learn.
You will learn a lot about laravel features and how
to put them into practice in making real world
application.
But maybe you've seen that there were some repeated
code that we wrote over and over in our application.
And this is not a good practice in software development
because it will make our application hard
to develop and hard to maintain. That's why here in
this lesson we're going to implement something
called DRY principle.
So as noted in Wikipedia that in software engineering
Don't repeat yourself or DRY is a principle of software development aimed at reducing repetition of
software patterns replacing it with
abstractions or repetition of some data
using data normalization to avoid redundancy.
So in the simple words DRY as the name says that
we should not repeat our self in our code.
So that's a brief intro but DRY
now let's implement that in our code.
All right let's head over to our terminal
and then create new branch
OK
we are in lesson-23 branch.
Now let's open user model
here we see that the code in vote
question and vote answer are similar.
Why did we need to define two different methods for two similar things.
So here in vote answer I'll cute everything except this one.
And then I'll create another method
let's say underscore vote
and I'll define three arguments here.
First argument will be relationship
the second argument will be model
and the third argument will be vote
inside this method
I'll paste the code.
And then I'll select vote answers
so the vote answers represent the relationship.
So here we can replace them to
relationship as we defined in here.
And then let's select all answer instances
and change them to model as we
defined in the second argument.
And the vote here is come from here.
Now we can go to to vote question method
here
delete everything except this first line.
and after that we can call this underscore
vote pass in the vote questions in the first
argument
and then pass
the question instance
in the second argument
and then vote.
Now we can go to vote answer method
and here we call this underscore vote pass
in vote answers
and then answer instance and then vote
and because this vote method will be called just in this model
so here we can change to private.
All right
let's save all changes and then let's make
sure that everything is working fine.
OK
I think it's still working fine.
Now let's refactor our code in the answer
and question model if you open answer model
here you'll see we have vote method
up votes and down votes method.
And then if you open question question model
Here you'll see we also have the same methods.
So let's implement DRY principle in both models
let's cut these three methods
and then let's go to app folder and
inside this folder let's create new file
and then let's call it votable trait dot php
here let's define namespace app and define a trait
so trait votable trait.
And inside this let's paste the earlier methods and that's it.
So we can image in a trait like a partial view we can
create it and write lines of code on it and then
we can include it in other file.
Once it included an other file then
the code inside it will be merged.
Now we can go back to answer model
and here we can include the trait in this
answer model by saying use votable trait.
So by doing these all methods that defined
in the trait will be available in this model.
Now let's do the same thing to question model.
let's remove these methods
and then here we include our votable
trait by saying use votable trait
ok
let's save all these.
and let's make sure that everything is working.
Alright
everything is still working as expected.
So that's it for this lesson let's save our work to our git repo.
git add all git commit -m and I'm going to say implement
DRY principle on answer and question models.
check out to master branch.
and then merge to lesson-23
then push the lesson-23 and master branch